Back to another episode of Between Sermons.
I'm your host, Brents.
I am the lead pastor at Disciples Church.
here in Tinley Park, Illinois.
And we are hanging out today so we can take the monologue from Sunday sermon and turn it into actual dialogue.
Want to dig a little bit deeper, get a little more practical, kind of give you a glimpse into what it's like kind of being in the room of a small group.
Hopefully you're doing that on your own, getting into a room with some other believers so you can talk through some stuff.
But we thought that this would be beneficial.
And we are in a really cool series right now called Red Flags.
but we're not looking at other people in judgment, although that is so easy to do.
You can get so caught up in that.
But what we're really trying to do in the series is look in the mirror, see what God is kind of pointing out in us.
You know, David prayed this prayer, he said, search me, oh God, know my heart.
know my anxious thoughts, point out any way in me that offends you, any grievous way in me.
And it's just, it's such a beautiful moment where the window is turned into a mirror and it's, hey, what's going on in my life?
And so that's what we're doing for this series.
And in order to have this conversation, I have the wonderful, the one and only co-host extraordinaire.
Wearing her bright red jacket because red is her color.
I thought she was gonna hate because she was.
I hate nothing.
That is, you look good in red.
I have paid attention.
You've mentioned many times that red is your color.
It is.
And you're wearing your color today.
Is that empowering?
Is that like?
No, it makes me feel happy and energetic.
Nice.
Yeah.
So yeah, like red.
And I'm learning this whole, okay, never mind.
It's about fashion.
So I'm not gonna go there.
I was gonna say, I'd be more happy and energetic if the bears had won.
They lost and I just realized I'm wearing a green which makes it feel like maybe I'm supporting the Packers Absolutely not what's happening here.
This was clean and comfortable, and it's really cold outside My fault
I had on green yesterday and he was like, I'm about to snatch that hat.
Cause I was like, you look like a backers fan.
That's a bad choice.
Well, I'm excited cause we get to have this conversation with my sister pretty and welcome to between service.
Thank you.
You've been on, but without me.
Yeah.
I was in your place hosting one day.
And you are normally the brains behind this operation.
You keep us together as the producer of this show.
scheduling the host and making sure that we stay on task.
So I'm happy to have you on this side.
And what better person to have joined this conversation about communication than our marketing and communication coordinator here at Disciples Church.
I scheduled myself.
I packed that for us.
Why did you think that this show was a good show for you?
I am very prayerful about who I ask like for the topic.
And I did feel this like little nudge from the Holy Spirit like this one's yours.
So I just am being obedient and doing that.
But I also am excited.
Yeah, it'll be fun.
Yeah.
So for all the people that have heard me say, isn't that right pretty or right pretty?
And everybody's like one through 10 pretty.
Right, right.
Yeah, that's me.
So here she is in the flesh, in the flesh.
And so awesome.
So now we just have to get Andy in that chair.
Yes, he said he's ready for all the people we talk about behind the camera.
He has been.
Yeah, he filled in for you one time.
So I wasn't here for it.
Yeah.
So weird.
Well, well, this is going to be a good conversation.
First of all, first, first of all, how are you guys enjoying this series?
Ref legs?
How is it for you guys?
I'm loving it because it's right around the holiday season.
And I feel like I thought about this yesterday.
Like God is so intentional with this topic because it's about going around your family.
I think it's holidays is a time where people's hearts are softer too.
And so I think it's like a great season to be like Jesus and look at ourselves before we are around our friends and family.
So I love it.
Yeah, that's true.
for for timing.
Yeah, I definitely think that the temptation during Thanksgiving and Christmas temptation is very much to like point fingers at people and be like, man, you if you met my cousin, you'd know what a red flag was.
It's like, hey, let's let's stop that.
Yeah, let's just look at ourselves and let's figure out what we need to do.
Yeah, we go from there.
Yeah, I love that.
So as a little bit of like for those who didn't get an opportunity to hear Pastor Mama Chris teach the message, give us a little bit of what that message was about before we dive into the conversation.
Yeah, so her assigned topic was bad communication.
So like, how are we communicating?
And are we being a representative of Christ in our communication?
And so she kind of broke down some red flags in communication when we don't address topics, when we like hide the truth or shy away from hard conversations.
Talked about like our mannerisms when we're talking, eye rolling and sighing and all the nonverbal body language type stuff that communicates a lot.
And the whole master was kind of set up and grounded in the life of David.
So King David, Man of the Gods on Heart, awesome story, amazing moments.
And we usually look at him as his failure was Bathsheba.
And yes, that was one of his failures.
But David actually failed in a lot of different areas.
That was like very big.
However, he also failed at just raising his kids.
And so like this horrific thing happens with his kids because clearly David
didn't communicate well with his kids, didn't talk to them about stuff.
So one of his kids is battling lust similar to how David had, which you would think that the guy that went through such a horrific failure because of lust would have had a conversation with his boys.
Like, hey guys, don't make my mistakes.
You would expect that, but clearly he doesn't.
So one of his sons is dealing with lust and in a pretty horrific way.
He is lusting after his half-sister.
Pretty graphic, pretty, like the Bible is kind of messed up.
Like if you actually read it, like it's straight like Netflix drama.
And so he ends up, the son ends up having rapes, the half-sister, it's this horrific moment.
David is upset by it, doesn't confront it, doesn't say anything, doesn't care for Tamar, doesn't address his son.
Just kind of is like, well, that sucks.
And that's like the extent of like what we hear from David.
And so David's other son gets even more upset and takes matters in his own hands, orchestrates basically the murder of his own brother.
And then later on in the story, we have another son of David who decides that he's going to become King.
And it literally says like David had never corrected him in his entire life.
And so he just felt like, yeah, I can be King because
because dad never told me to stop doing anything.
And so it's just like, you just see like over and over again, like his kids, like these horrific moments.
First son, sexually assaults his sister, the other son murders that guy.
Another son tries to usurp the throne and kill his own father.
And David's silent in all of it.
Like it's just such a horrible example of communication.
And yet he could write these beautiful songs, like he could articulate the emotions and all this stuff.
And yet when it came to his own family, he just didn't know how to talk.
And so that was kind of the grounding of the message to try and figure out, okay, how can we do this better?
How can we address this?
And so she talked about a few different things, like listening well, like active listening, what that's like, choosing your words and really just confronting yourself first.
Uh, which went right in theme with the whole looking in the, in the mirror.
Um, so yeah.
So that was, that was the message in a nutshell.
Yeah.
It was really good.
So I do encourage you to, um, check that out.
Cause it was really good.
I heard a lot of great feedback, but one question that I do have for you and we'll start with you pretty.
Um, there was some.
things that she listed as red flags and so which of the red flags show up most in your relationship so avoiding difficult conversations
blame and criticism, defensiveness, harsh language, or condescending tone and body language.
And then you think about it too.
And I'm not gonna think about it.
So you guys have fun.
When it's my turn, I'm just gonna hold the mirror.
I wish I had PC's red flag.
We have a whole bunch of red flags here.
I did it.
You wore the red jacket because you're the embodiment of the red flag.
We'll wave Taisha.
Wave your hands.
I think for me my red flag when I thought about that list was the harsh language I think that I had to get reeled in when I got saved of like just saying what's on my mind and
I think I just grew up that way, a very Indian mom who's like blunt and direct.
So I think that's just how I always talked and I didn't realize until really the Lord was showing me like the impact of my words and to be more gentle and how gentleness really
Like it's important for people to receive what you say, not just to be able to say it.
So that's my red flag.
So is that current?
I think it's always going to, I always have to check my heart.
Yeah.
Before I speak.
I can see that.
Not that I can see.
I'll say I can see for all of us.
I get you.
I'm trying to communicate here.
Yeah, for me, it's definitely that the condescending, cutting remarks, sarcasm, that whole kind of web of things that is I will say I'm better than I once was.
And I think that every year I'm a little bit better.
The problem is when you need to walk a mile and you're taking one step a year, it's gonna take you a long time to get there maybe.
So yeah, so there's definitely some area for improvement in my life when it comes to words, which is kind of a weird thing to say for somebody that like my main job is communicating.
And yet I can still say things the wrong way.
And I have to be very cautious.
And where that usually comes out is
when I'm tired or just extra frustrated, and then it'll usually come out at the people I'm closest to.
Yeah.
Which, like, I hate that.
Yeah, me too.
Because, like, what ended up happening is, like, the people I love the most feel the most attacked.
That's true.
And so, you know, I used to joke that, like, if I say something mean to you, it's because I really like you.
Like, it's because, like, we're close enough that I don't have to filter as much.
But that's just awful.
Like, that's just...
I don't know that that makes me feel ugly and I don't I don't want to do that.
So this is such a warm moment.
Thanks.
I just like I felt that I felt that in my red jacket.
I felt that.
I would say mine is defensiveness.
I always feel like I have to defend myself and it's probably something I'm always actively working on.
So I think that's something that stood out to me in her message and even the part about being slow to speak, slow to anger.
Oh, that's on repeat in my head.
Um, and so yeah, that'll be my area.
Yeah.
But, but when it comes to her message yesterday, pretty, what was something that currently that really like stood out to you?
I think the listening part, um, and that part of communication, cause I,
I'm a talker, so I'm like, okay, I think I could have the conversations be able to say things, but do I actually like sit back and listen for understanding the person?
I'm also someone that likes to like, if you're talking to me, I'll think of a solution or advice or encouragement.
So I'm thinking about like how I could help in a way with my words.
And I think it really pricked my heart yesterday of like,
But do you actually just sit there and try to understand where this person's coming from and how, yeah, I just, that could, that's just going to grow my heart for people.
If I'm not trying to necessarily fix things, but really just listen.
Like just going back to like your childhood, where do you think all of that, like you've learned how to communicate.
I guess, where do you think that can come from?
Wow.
That's a deep question.
I don't know why I felt this way.
I think.
Should I leave for the 30th session of the time?
So when Baby Pretty knows, when I was younger, you know, it's actually interesting, because I brought this up yesterday, too, of like, I was that child that was very rebellious.
And I got in trouble a lot.
I got called the bad kid, and my brother was the good kid.
And so it was like, the label was on me from the beginning.
And I would say that with my parents growing up, I was punished harshly, more like harsher consequences.
But if someone would have just sat down and explained to me, I was definitely receptive.
I just needed understanding.
And so I think a lot of maybe that came from that whole not really being talked to.
Yeah.
You know?
No, that makes total sense.
What about you, Pester Brant?
So I think that my wife would throw something at me if she was in the room.
If I didn't say active listening is the thing that I need to be working on.
I think she elbowed me at least 87 times during that part of the message.
The funny thing is I was literally on my phone when my mother was talking about not being on your phone when you're actually listening.
And my wife was like, exactly.
So yeah.
No seriously.
Oh my goodness.
You did that to me the other day.
And it definitely is something that was like, I even see me doing it with my kids.
Like one of my kids has almost like a nightly routine that they come to kind of talk through some stuff that they've been going through.
But they always seem to like walk up to me at the same exact time of the night when I'm like deep into my phone.
Like deep into it.
And so there's a lot of times when like they're talking and I'm just like, uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
And I'm like, man, I'm missing a moment with my child.
Like I need to put this down.
Yes.
I was in the middle of something.
They technically interrupted me.
Yeah.
That's my, that's my usual defense.
That's my excuse.
I was already doing that.
I tried that with my wife all the time.
Yeah.
It doesn't work.
She's caught on to your.
Because she got mad at me the other day for not listening to her.
I was like, but you walked in the room and I was doing something.
How are you going to yell at me for not listening?
Should I yell at you for interrupting?
It did not work out very well.
So I messaged all the guys listening.
Don't use that argument.
It doesn't work.
It's a bad argument, apparently.
Logically, it made sense to me.
It did not work with my wife.
I love that.
I was going to say, I love the use the word active listening versus like, if I think of passive, cause I'm like, well, I'm still listening, but I'm like also multitasking or, um, I think this whole generation can really learn from that of like, how do we just put the things to the side and really be present with someone.
I was definitely challenged on that last week when I was on a devotional, um, I was reading
the scripture, but my mind was on 20 other things.
And I felt like I need to slow down.
And so I felt like, okay, turn your mind off.
So I put on worship music.
And I just sat in that moment I was present and I promise you the day felt better.
And I'm like, I always read my devotional.
Why did this one feel better?
And it was cause I sat and I was actually present with that moment.
So that's a good point that you brought up just being present.
Yeah.
That's why putting the phone down is such a big thing.
Cause it's like, you can be present with that person.
Yeah.
That's really hard for me to do though.
It's like, I like my phone.
It has information.
Oh my goodness.
It has things on it.
Yeah.
So why do you feel like God, why do you feel like communication?
Good communication is so important to God.
Go ahead and get convicted.
No, I'm sorry.
It's an interesting question.
Yeah.
I think it's probably just comes down to,
when you're not communicating well, I don't know how to answer that question.
Why is it so important to God?
Yeah, I mean, we're in the series of red flags, and if bad communication is something that we need to check, why is it important to have good communication?
So I think the answer is, because bad communication is damaging.
You're actually hurting people with bad communication.
If we just looked at David,
as that like extreme horrible example.
Because of David's lack of clear, good communication, someone was raped, someone was murdered.
His kingdom was split in two.
His own son revolted against him, tried to murder him.
Like, this is what happened in David's life because of bad communication.
Are those things going to happen in your life?
Probably not that extreme.
However, your communication could end your marriage.
It could put animosity between you and your kids.
It could cost you your job.
It could ruin relationships.
If we're supposed to be the hands and feet of Jesus, that also implies that we're also a mouthpiece.
Our communication should actually be pointing people to Jesus.
So when we do that poorly, or we don't do that in the way that it's supposed to,
We've talked sometimes about when pastors have moral failures, it's like it gives a black eye to Christianity.
It's like we took a punch in the face.
And so for every Christian though, how you're communicating, you're representing Christ in your workplace, in your family.
The way you're talking to your kids, your kid could grow up going, I don't even wanna go to church because my dad is so abusive and he calls himself a Christian, but the way he talks to me,
Like, so I think that it has a lot of ramifications.
Good communication is, man, it's so necessary.
Yeah.
I think of like, we're made to interact.
And like, even with the Lord, it's like, all of this is about, he wants a relationship with us.
And once, and that relationship is also what he wants, you know, with each other.
That's what we're supposed to have.
And I was thinking about like, how disciples are known for their love.
but it's not like emotional gush kind of love.
There's like this, you know, language that you also have.
And so I think of like the importance of having peace in our relationships.
And I think communication is really where it starts.
Yeah.
And how, you know, it brings clarity.
Like God's not an author of confusion.
And I even think of like, my mentor tells me this all the time and she's like, if you have something important to talk about, don't text it.
Cause she's like, if you give Satan just a little, a little toe into that conversation for it to, to make, to cause confusion, he will do it and offense will happen and you know, division.
And as we learned David's story that, that Pastor Chris talked about yesterday was so good.
Cause I never saw that of like, David didn't talk to his children.
I was like, what?
And you're right.
That's exactly what I think about.
He wrote songs.
Like, and he was so expressive, but he didn't confront things.
But all of that to say that it's about having this clear, I think very free, you know, in peace, peaceful relationship with people.
The communication kind of drives that and leads that.
So seeking, understanding,
not being quick to be angry and things of that nature.
How do you see that playing an active role in your position even as being over communications for a church?
How do you feel like that is present?
I think there's a lot of layers to that.
I think overall it's just how do we
communicate the gospel, right?
So that's like the good news of Jesus.
God says, how do you do it in a way that's like revealing the mysteries of it?
And so it's like breaking it down, making it simple, making it clear so that it actually is understood.
And so when I think of communication, that word understanding is really what it is.
And so even in my, if I think of my own work mode here in ministry, I'm like, okay,
I have to make sure that this person knows what time something is, maybe it's said more than once, emailing the person, you know, that video makes me laugh.
I'm not going to call it an idiot, but I'm not responding to emails.
The bumper video.
Yeah, the bumper video.
But there's certain things where you don't think it's a big deal, but how it can cause such chaos and disorder when you don't follow through with those conversations.
I think sometimes what we do too is we think of things in our mind and then we don't actually like say it.
So being intentional about that and just communications over like
in this in the church I feel like it's what we're telling our congregation like what's coming up next like do they even know that this is something that the food pantry you know do they even know that they have this resource it's like we could be doing all these good things but do the people know it you know we could talk about God but do they actually know the good news
No, it was making me think about the bumper and how we kind of said we were looking for the next DC pastor.
But that is a real question, Pastor Brandt.
Like when you are looking to, if you feel like God is leading you to like your pastoral team, are you looking for people who like exceed in good communication?
Yeah, being able to communicate is absolutely pivotal priority for a pastor.
And that doesn't mean preaching.
It actually means communicating.
Because if you're going to be a pastor, you're going to have one-on-one communication.
You're going to have group communication.
You may have stage communication, but you're absolutely going to have the other kinds.
And so being able to articulate thoughts clearly in a way that is winsome, that draws people in, that gives them understanding.
And yeah, it's absolutely pivotal.
So yeah.
It's weird cause like when we, we don't just actively go out and look for pastors like in general.
It's more about, is there a role that needs to be filled by a pastor?
Is there somebody that needs to step into that?
And so then because it's role based, the priority is on what is needed in that role.
but communication is always on that list.
It just depends on the role, how high on that list it goes.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, I can even see that in leadership and not just leading in a capacity at a church, but in your homes and how David had a lack of leadership in his own family.
Like that was a overall message that I was saying, like if he would have just communicated and stepped up as a leader in his home, things wouldn't have crumbled.
There's a lot of factors to this, what I'm about to say, but one
the factors for why in some companies when like there's an employee that's doing a really good job at their job so then the company promotes them to manager over a group of people doing that same job and they end up horrible in that role like one of the issues is this wasn't a communicator like this person didn't know how to rally the troops encourage them challenge them
get on their case when they're not doing the job well, but in a way that motivates them to actually do their job well, you just took somebody that knew how to put item A into item B and ship it off.
And there's other factors to this, but one of them is a lack of communication skills.
Yeah, that's good.
So this, I mean, we may see this as a very surface level, like red flag communication, but it really is like you said, ingrained in every area and aspect.
Like you can't be in community and we're really big on a community here in at Disciples Church.
You can't really be in leadership if like,
your communication needs to be worked on.
So I do have some application questions that we can kind of help guide people that they may have in regards to communication.
So let's, let's, let's dig in.
Um, what if, so if someone had this question, I said, what if I don't know how to start heart, heart conversations?
How should I begin?
Um, man, I'm a rip the bandaid off kind of guy.
The more you put them off, the less likely you're going to actually have the conversation.
I definitely think that you need to plan for it.
You need to put some thought into the hard conversation.
You need to pick the right place to have the hard conversation.
I've been under some leaders where they decided to have the hard conversation right then, right there, no matter what.
And it was horrific.
It was awful.
Because there's times when it's like, it's a room of 10 people.
And you're about to confront the one person.
And the other nine are just going to have to sit there and watch this awkward conversation take place.
So we have a policy of praise in public, correct in private.
And so in that group of 10, we're going to say, hey, great job with this, this, this.
And then in our one-on-one later, we'll be like, hey, I know you did great in this, this, and this.
However, there is this one other area that we need to address and we need to talk about.
So yeah, I think hard conversations don't delay, but come up with a plan, figure out the right place, the right time, because sometimes the timing is everything.
And I think that's one of the lessons like my mother talked about on Sunday that she had a friend who was one of her leaders
and she was ready to confront this person, have the hard conversation, remove some responsibilities, maybe remove them from leadership, all justified, all the right response.
And when she started the conversation, discovered where that person was in life.
And it was like, oh, that's not appropriate.
Like if I were to do that, would I be right?
Yes.
Would it do any good?
No, it'd be more damaging than good.
So the timing was off.
And so, and like I think I've shared on here before, I had a similar,
encounter with somebody where I brought them in to have a corrective meeting so that we could have something in writing before I terminated them.
It was they needed to be fired.
My boss at the time agreed that they need to be fired.
And I was like, okay, can we fire them tomorrow?
And he said, not until you have the hard conversation with them.
And I was like, but you agree that they need to be fired.
And he's like, yeah.
But you have to do this hard conversation first.
I think it was more of a lesson for me than anything.
And so I came up with my game plan, called them into the office, and literally as they were, I could hear their footsteps walking towards my door, felt the Holy Spirit just say, start with how are you doing?
And I was like, that was not on the agenda at all, because I don't care how they're doing, because what they're doing is not good.
So how they're doing doesn't apply.
because that's my male mindset in this.
But I am also obedient to the Holy Spirit.
I may be dumb in a lot of areas, but I'm smart enough to know.
If he's telling you to do something, you'd probably do it.
And so I asked them how they're doing, and they went into all of this family stuff that I had no knowledge of.
I didn't know anything about it.
Did it justify their work ethic, their work behavior?
No, but it gave context to it, and it made me realize
the timing was not right, that I needed to be able to care for them as a person before I judge them for their work, essentially.
And that I hadn't actually been a leader who cared for them as a person.
And so it was almost like, as they were going through all this, all I was actually feeling from the Holy Spirit was like an indictment against my leadership in their life that I treated them as a tool and not a person.
And so it kind of shifted my mentality on that.
We did end up firing that person.
But I grew a lot first.
And then my boss was like...
I was not expecting that, but we did end up.
I mean, it wasn't like the same day.
It was a couple months later, I think.
But yeah, my boss had told me, yeah, you need to fire this person.
I have so many questions.
We can talk offline.
Well, what I love about what God did
through that situation is like he made sure your heart remained soft and like pure.
You know because I think when you fire someone or whatever heart you were going in with it was like he's just such a loving God like I don't want my child to have a bitter heart or a hard heart even though it's a hard conversation and I just love that.
That brings me up to or reminds me of maybe one of my favorite moments in in my mother's message was
when she was having that difficulty with my dad, which is always fun to hear, you know, as the son.
My mom and dad got issues.
I always think, like, what is Pastor Brent digging?
It's always weird.
It's awkward.
You should be there when they do like a relationship message and they start talking about sex.
Can I just be in a different room right now?
I'm going to do the Kojic finger and just walk out.
Yeah, so she talked about how God kind of confronted her.
And she's like, but I'm just trying to help my husband be a better husband.
And God said, well, I want you to be a better wife.
And there's so many, I mean, it's such a mirror moment, but there's something just so beautiful about that.
Like I was going into a meeting.
I wanted this person to be a better employee.
Holy Spirit wanted me to be a better boss.
And so it was like when you can realize like God's trying to work on you,
So yeah, you do need to help others.
Like sometimes we take that scripture out of its context.
You know, yes, we are supposed to remove the plank out of our own eye, but it does say first, remove the plank out of your own eye.
So that, right?
Like, no, like you are supposed to help your brother get the speck out of their eye.
Like we are supposed to be, yeah, like iron sharpens iron.
How does that happen?
Like, so you are supposed to not ignore when somebody has something wrong, but you're supposed to
fix some stuff in you first, so you're not approaching it as a hypocrite.
It's essentially what the scriptures actually say.
And then we take it and we're like, you can't judge me because...
So take out your plank.
So wait a minute, you just judged me.
How does that work?
You are the only person I know that would be like, first, he said first.
I pay attention to grammar.
Grammar in the Bible is important.
You're teaching me that now.
I'm like, wait a minute, what does this say?
Where's the loophole?
It's not a loophole.
He says first and then, like first and then.
This is an order of events.
Yeah, take care of yourself so that you can do a better job and part of that is when you have a plank in your eye This is I love the visual of this.
Yeah, like if I have a big like stick sticking out of my eye Can't see but you have a tiny little speck in yours How close can I actually get you like I'm smacking you in the head with my big old tree that's coming out of my eye Like I have to remove that thing so that I can actually get close enough to you.
Oh
to actually help you remove that little spike.
That is good.
Go ahead and preach.
Come on.
Relationships.
The Bible is amazing.
It is.
And you should read it sometime.
Amen.
I didn't mean you.
I meant like in general.
You meant the ones that are not.
Yeah.
See?
The bits of it.
I know.
Let me defend myself.
Is that one of the red flags, spirit of offense?
Spirit of offense, you went old school with that one.
Just for you.
Okay.
Just try my best here.
Yes.
No, it's working.
It's good.
How do you feel like you feel with heart conversations?
You know, I think that a lot of my walk has been relying on the Lord like truly prayer.
And one thing that I was always taught is like, before you have a conversation with someone, ask the Lord to soften their heart.
So they receive it.
But little did I know, every time I do that, it softens my heart towards them.
And so I think for me, when I go into a hard conversation, it's the confidence of my heart is right.
I actually want the best for this person because I've been praying
And only God can kind of give you that heart for that person.
And then when I go into those hard conversations, I feel like what's going to come out of my mouth will be edifying, encouraging, loving.
Maybe I'll make mistakes, you know, and that will happen because I'm human.
But at least I know that I'm not going in with a bad attitude.
Yeah.
That's good.
Checking, doing that heart check before.
Yeah.
And even praying for the other person, I remember
I was in a group chat.
I don't think it was harsh, but you know how sometimes your flesh can rise up.
And so the conversation was like, did you see what they were just going in on this person's Facebook posts?
And then I was like, and we should pray.
And I was like, I don't think you can pray for somebody and talk about somebody in the same breath.
So we really like praying first like if you're praying for this person, how can you like attack them?
We're going with the wrong heart.
Yeah Like that old school like the the gossip prayer circle.
Yeah, we need to be praying for my cousin cuz you know We're gonna pray for my neighbor because did you hear what and it's like you did that wasn't a prayer That was a Christian gossip circle man.
You try to like soften the yeah, no
That is a real name Christian gossip.
Wow.
Yeah.
Well, I've experienced actually that and I was like, what was that?
Like I'm pretty sure they just told me everything about this person that I should not know.
And then said for to pray for that.
And I was like, that's when I was introduced to it.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
Be careful.
It's like worldly gossip.
You just add the prayer at the prayer.
That's what you're trying to do.
I know sneaky.
Okay.
So how do I confront someone without ruining a relationship?
Um, you need, uh, relational equity.
Uh, so we call this the, the checkbook, uh, method.
And so, uh, part of this, like it loses its, we're going to have to come up with a new, uh, illustration, uh, because as newer and newer generations come up, not knowing what balancing a checkbook even means.
Uh, but it's, it's like,
The idea is when you have to correct somebody that you're in relationship with, you are making a withdrawal on the relationship.
So in order to make the withdrawal, you need to make sure that you have invested enough into the account so that you don't bounce the check.
So in other words, every time I'm interacting with somebody and I'm praising them, I'm celebrating them, I'm praying for them, I'm loving on them,
I am putting money into this relational account.
When I serve them, when I care for them, all of that, I'm putting money in.
When I have to have hard conversations, I'm taking money out.
And so what ends up happening is some people have not invested enough in order to have the level of withdrawal they're about to have.
And that's when relationships break down.
But I've invested enough into my wife,
that I can sit down with her and I can have a hard conversation.
And yes, it still is withdrawing money.
It's still taking something out of the account, but I'm writing a check for $100 and I've got a million dollars in the account.
We can handle it.
The problem is when you're trying to write a check that your account can't handle.
And so you need to make sure that you have been caring for the person, investing the person in a way.
So that's like step one.
Um, because you could do all of that the right way, but then in the methodology of how you confront somebody, you could end up like just destroying them anyways.
So, uh, that's where you have to really be careful of, uh, language, body language, uh, environment timing, all of those things.
So like these hard conversations, like, yeah, there has to be a lot of thought put into it.
Uh, and I'm being a little bit vague here because like the,
the nature of the conversation and the nature of the relationship is, is a variable that I can't account for, for like just blanket advice.
Like if we're talking a boss to an employee is different than husband and wife is different than father to son is different to best friends is different from, you know, coworkers, right?
So, but in, in all of those instances, you need to make sure that you're, you have invested enough in the person that you can make this, this stressor on the account.
Uh, you also need to choose your words very carefully.
Um, we want to eliminate, um, uh, like, what do we call them?
Like the absolute kind of statements.
Like you always do this.
Yeah.
Never do stuff like that because the moment you say always, all I have to do as the person listening to you is come up with one time when the always isn't true.
And now I can just.
eliminate everything that you've just said.
So we don't use these definitive always never those kind of statements.
We want to lean more on I feel kind of statements.
It's like, Hey, when when you said this, I really felt like this is what you were actually communicating.
That gives the other person a chance to
to defend or to say, yeah, actually, you know, I kind of do.
That's exactly how I wanted to communicate that.
And it's like, oh, wow.
Okay.
Well, and then we can move from there.
Yeah.
Um, and yeah, there's, there's for confrontation.
I think we've taught some lessons on confrontation.
If not, I might need to do one, um, here, here soon.
Maybe we can tack it into like life university videos or something.
Um, to talk about confrontation because there's, there's a lot of different like tips that I could give.
on how to have those hard conversations.
Yeah, I like something that Pretty said earlier about praying for that person.
I think that it's, man, it's amazing how well hard conversations have gone when the Holy Spirit was in the room and how poorly they've gone when he wasn't.
Like, Holy Spirit, I'm definitely gonna need you right here because as you get into some of those conversations,
you might have already planned for all the right things to say.
And then I love, I love Mike Tyson's quote, you know, everybody's got to plan till they get punched in the face.
Um, but, uh, but sometimes you get into the middle of that confrontation and everything that you would like pre-planned for now, all of a sudden their response just throws everything you had planned for out the window.
And it's in those moments, man, that you need the Holy Spirit, giving wisdom and guidance, helping you to say the right things to not say.
Like sometimes it's about choosing not to say something that makes all the difference.
And so I don't know about you guys, but for me, I need the Holy Spirit to like grab my mouth and shut it for me sometimes because I just want to say things.
We don't need the red flags.
A lot of it is what you don't say that really matters.
I'm learning that this year I feel like that the Lord's been really working with me on that humility piece of you don't have to say everything that's on your mind and heart and how just really being submitted to the leading of the Lord in that.
And I agree with you.
Like I don't think I've had a confronting conversation where when I've prayed and just even the plan, I have a plan.
Yeah.
And then just really just at the end of the day, just being like, but God, I trust.
that whatever needs to be said will.
And I want to say this, but if that door doesn't open up for me to say that, then I won't.
And trusting God in that.
And it's like God shows up when 90, sometimes I've had situations where that person already was being dealt with by the Lord, or the Lord was, like this happened between me and my husband, where it's like, hey babe, this man came up to me in the gym and he said so and so and so, you know, and I was like,
That's exactly what I wanted to talk about.
So it's like, you know, God sometimes will take care of all of it for you.
And that's what I, you know, you have the Lord.
So it's so different than the world when you're confronting.
Yeah.
I will say that like when you are communicating with someone who is a disciple of Jesus Christ, that it's so much different than communicating with someone who really
don't have a relationship with God, don't care to have one and really don't care about people because you can still have the same feelings come up.
But you learn how to first look at yourself.
Most most disciples of Christ do that.
Disciples of Christ do that.
And then you start to see the other person in a different light.
Yeah.
And I feel like you just
you know, the Lord helped you through those moments.
And I've experienced that time after time in some of my communications with people, like I could always tell like we both are really just out here trusted in God and we may get it wrong, but like God always redeems like our hearts because they are true and they are pure.
And I think that's a beautiful thing to see.
especially with your spouses or relationships and friendships.
So yeah, that's good.
Yeah.
All right.
Um, what do I do when I try to talk
and the person gets defensive, so I can't answer that question clearly.
So yeah, you guys have fun.
So pretty when you're talking to Taisha and she gets defensive, what do you do?
How do you handle me?
It's going to be all right.
You really do.
When they get defensive, I think
Even just in my marriage, I'll use that as an example.
She's trying to save our friendship.
I think I have more moments.
I think I have more moments, obviously, because, you know, just more time with him.
But I feel like when he gets defensive, I'm not going to lie, and I'm going to tell you the truth, I get defensive right back.
And I think it's because of
how close we are, like that familiarity.
But I think that there have been moments where he's gotten defensive and I've been able to, like in my mind, I will say like, Lord, help me.
Or maybe we'll get defensive right back and then the next day, God will give me that insight of like, no, this is where he was coming from.
That's good.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know how to really respond the best way.
So when I do it right, it's usually I take a moment and say, Hey, let's just back off for a second.
Let's just calm down for a second because I'm not trying to attack you.
I'm for you.
I'm just pointing out something that took place and you don't have to defend because this isn't a I'm mad at you and now we're not attacking like we're approaching this thing together for how we can both get better at this and so like when I'm doing the right way it's really taking the time to just relieve the pressure in the room to just say hey it's okay like I'm not I'm not mad I'm not pointing a finger I'm not I'm not angry about any of this
I'm just telling you what I feel or what I see and maybe we can come up with a solution together I think that making sure that you have a very calm voice like when somebody gets defensive Their voice is probably gonna raise and then if you match that volume like but there's something funny about like when when one person starts raising their voice and the other person just keeps it calm You will feel so awkward right being the loud one like
Yes, you could get more angry.
I don't.
It's like, I don't know what to do.
Right, right, right.
Where are you?
And where are you at?
So like the perfect person.
Just hit that pressure release valve on the slow cooker, and you'll be all right.
When I don't do it well is usually with my kids.
And it's usually Bennett.
What talks to all my friend under the bus?
I absolutely.
She's defending Bennett.
Get defensive on his behalf.
Bennett, from the time he was like three years old, you cannot address something in his life without him getting defensive.
It is his default nature.
And so it's something that we're trying to work through with him to help him become a more well-rounded adult.
We only have five more years with him to work this thing out.
But yeah, so his default is to get very, very defensive.
And to the point of he can't hear criticism, he can't hear advice.
So he's obsessed with soccer.
That's his thing.
And so we try and coach him in soccer.
We watch the game.
We're like, hey, man, if you actually were a little more aggressive on this play, well, I didn't because immediately it's an excuse or it's all this stuff.
And so we're trying and trying and trying.
And yet he's still the one I fail at this the most.
He starts getting defensive.
I start getting frustrated.
And then I'll literally, I'll just get to the point where I'm like, Bennett, shut up.
Stop making excuses.
Just say, yes, sir.
Like I'm your dad.
I'm telling you what needs to happen.
Cut it out.
And then he just shuts down.
And I'm like, I'm like, I won.
And then my son won't talk to me the rest of the day.
And he doesn't actually fix the behavior.
And so I was like, if I didn't win anyway, I got him to stop defending, but it didn't work out.
And so I think that you can tell when you're doing it well, when you're doing it poorly, based on the outcome of the conversation.
If they're getting defensive and you explode, when they explode, it's not, nothing's getting solved, nothing's getting resolved.
But if you can help alleviate the pressure, calm things down, remind them that you're on their side,
Like, this is not a me versus you, so you're trying to defend my attack.
I'm not attacking you.
Right.
Like, we're addressing an issue together.
I think that that helps.
Yeah.
So that is a moment where you're giving us permission to look out the window.
After you have looked in the mirror.
And so the mirror point is, do I get defensive?
Or when somebody else gets defensive, do I explode on them?
Do I just lash out?
That's the mirror part of it.
Yeah.
So work on that.
That's removing the plank.
Yeah.
Now I can work on the spec in somebody else's.
You know, I think of, um, for even for me to receive from God, I think of like, I always say this.
I'm like, God, you're for me, not against me.
So I love that what you said, Pastor Brown, like really, uh, maybe making that more of a point of letting that person know, like I'm for you, not against you here.
Yeah.
And you can really, you can start a conversation with that.
And I've done that even through email to employees before.
It's like, hey, just want you to know this is not a like I'm mad at you kind of email.
I got that email yesterday actually.
I said something at the end of it.
What did I say?
It was like, don't worry.
I didn't open it.
I closed with it.
I was like, this is not a mad dad email.
Mad dad?
It's not mad dad.
I just have a moment of transparency with that email.
That's scripture.
Do not be quick to speak with, you know, be quick to listen, slow to speak.
I was going to completely mess myself up yesterday when I got that email.
Cause I had all the defenses, like ready to go.
And then I was like, God was like, can you stop and read his email again?
So I went and read and I was like,
Ooh, if I would have responded and tried to screenshot proof, I probably would have been thrown under the flag because he was totally right in what he said.
And I was like, oh, I would have messed myself up if I would have spoke too fast, trying to prove a point and defend myself.
And it was one of those, too, where it was like, I don't need to know why it happened or what caused it to happen or excuse me for why it happened.
I'm just asking, like, hey, what can we do in the future so that it doesn't happen again?
That was a perfect communication moment right there.
I tried.
You did good.
I didn't feel too bad.
I left encouraged, but I know I need to fix something.
But no, that was good.
And I feel like just in life, we have to know how to communicate.
Let's even make me think about why do
why is it so important to God?
You know, like sometimes it's like emotions.
Like, why does God, why did he give us emotions?
You know, it's like, why is communication something he really wants us to work on?
Cause it can make or break.
Everything really.
So that's good.
Um, okay.
So another question is, how do I know the difference between keeping the peace and avoiding the problem?
Man, I wish my wife was in the room for that one.
She would love to answer that question.
Because, yeah, because that's been something that she's struggled with in the past of like, I'm just keeping the peace, keeping the peace, keeping the peace, keeping the peace.
And it's like, but are you or are you just burying your head in the sand?
Because you're not at peace because you're in total chaos and turmoil because everybody else is still doing the thing that's frustrating you.
But they're happy doing the wrong thing.
because you haven't confronted them.
So you're enabling them to have peace by robbing yourself of peace.
That doesn't make any sense to me.
And so yeah, the keeping the peace versus actually confronting something, for me, there's so many variables to that.
I don't know that I always get it right, but I try and work through how bad is it if I let this go?
And how good is it if they fix it?
And wherever that balance is, where it's like, okay, the damage that could be done by confronting this person.
And maybe it goes back to that checking account kind of thing.
Like maybe I haven't invested enough in this person.
And so sometimes I'll even have somebody else do a corrective conversation with somebody because I know they have more equity.
But yeah, so trying to determine between keeping the peace and actually confronting
I think if my confrontation is gonna be a net positive, a net win for the organization, for the relationship, for both parties, then I'm gonna go for it, as long as it outweighs the negative result.
So if this is gonna come across as me nagging or me nitpicking or me harping on a tiny little thing and it's like, man, we just had 99 awesome things happen and one bad thing happen, can I let the one bad thing slide?
Could I give it some time to say, hey, we want to take time first to celebrate the 99.
And then we're going to come back around to the, hey, for next time, here's how we can get better to then address the one.
And yeah, there's definitely times when my kids will have an attitude or something.
And it's like, okay, I could be dad in this moment and be like, hey, fix your attitude.
Or I could say, okay.
They had a really rough day.
They just need a few minutes.
And I'm not going to allow them to constantly have a bad attitude or speak badly to myself or my wife or to other people.
However, in this moment, yes, he raised his voice or yes, she rolled her eyes.
However, I'm going to give them a little bit of grace because I know where they're at and I know that we can address that issue in other ways at other times.
And we have in the past and it'll be a nice little reminder
but in this moment, it's better for them and it's better for our relationship.
If I just breathe a little bit and be like, all right, that was disrespectful, but I'll allow it.
So there's a lot of like evaluation that's taking place.
Like, okay, is it worth it?
And if your answer is always, it's never worth it, then you're just avoiding.
That's not healthy.
That's not good.
And then like the boss I once had you know if everything needs to addressed like right there on the spot right away And it's like okay.
That's not healthy either like there's some things where you just got to swallow and say okay for the sake of the relationship We're gonna we're gonna let that one slide.
I'll be okay.
They'll be okay.
Yeah, it's not the end of the world It's like I had a conversation with a leader once there they were trying to figure out if they needed to correct Somebody that was under them because they had heard them say something and
that they're like, but that's not what we believe based on scripture.
And they're like, so do I need to confront them?
And honestly, in that specific example that they're giving, I told them no.
I said, okay, so what you're referring to is actually a gray area in scripture.
It's an area where there is an interpretation that leads to what we believe.
There's an interpretation that leads to what they believe.
But at the end of the day, is it a salvation issue?
Is it gonna lead somebody down the wrong path?
No, it's totally fine.
And so I told them, just let it slide.
I don't know.
A little bit later, they came with another example from the same person.
But this time it was like a major issue.
It's like, oh, that one you need to correct.
That other one you could let slide.
This one is a major thing that you need to do something about.
So you kind of have to play that weighing game, that evaluation game, pros and cons.
What's the positive and negative that can happen from this going the right way or going poorly?
That's good.
Can you roll your eyes?
I know, Pastor, she was like, I was practicing how to roll my eyes.
Oh, you know how to do it.
You got a lot of practice with rolling your eyes.
Not at all.
You just looked like your sister in that moment.
Is that because my sister rolls her eyes a lot?
No, I've just seen her.
I've just seen her.
It was just big.
When she was here, we were friends.
I saw her.
So now you reminded me.
That's funny.
Now, how do you deal with like choosing those moments to speak up night?
Yeah, I think of, you know, the thing that helps me is that language of keeping peace versus making peace.
And that's like how the Bible puts it is making peace.
And that revelation in itself has,
changed a lot for me.
When you make peace, you're active and it's very intentional of what Pastor Brent said of like, now you're really looking at like, is this worth saying something?
Is this not?
What will be the outcome of this?
When I think of making peace, that's what I think of is looking at that outcome.
You know.
That's good.
Yeah.
OK, girl.
She raised Bibles.
Love it.
OK. Just a couple more.
How do I break communication habits I've learned from my childhood?
I think this is really a big one.
I will start with me.
I don't know how to do it.
But I think being married helped me.
I grew up in a house where yelling was love.
So it was like.
you know, if you're not yelling and fighting, like you don't love me.
And so when I get married and I'm like, Dave is not a yellow passion, right?
Where's the passion?
And so he's not a yellow and he doesn't like to fight.
So I'm like, you're not quiet.
Do you love me?
Like you're quiet.
Be angry with me.
I'm yelling.
I love you.
I'm fighting for you.
And he's like, what are you talking about?
He was like, that's not how I grew up.
So it's like,
definitely you can bring those habits into like adulthood, like what you learned or what you saw as a child.
So that's my little tidbit.
So I'm better, but I definitely came into my marriage thinking that yelling and being passionate equal to love.
So that's good.
Yeah.
I think for me, I had the silent treatment thing and maybe some criticism there too.
And I would say the same thing meant like my marriage really, marriage is a mirror.
It is.
It's definitely not a window.
Well, you couldn't make it a window, I guess.
But for me, I started to learn like, I remember dating Nico and right away he was like, I hate the silent treatment.
And he really made that a point to tell me that of how it makes him feel.
And so I was like really intentional like, okay, I can't do that even though that's what I saw growing up or that's what was used.
avoiding those conversations and just then letting it go after the silent treatment.
So I was like, okay, we can't do that.
But then I would be like kind of critical and harsh with him.
Cause I learned that you just say whatever's on your mind.
So if this bothers you, you just say it.
Um, and then really I think it really, it was when I got saved where I feel like the Lord was really showing me like my, how my words either build up or tear down.
And so then I became very mindful of that.
Not perfect, but.
I think I like that mindful phrase because I think if you take the Bible, you know, as God's word for us, like take it seriously, like I need to be working on this.
There's just so many passages to talk about your words.
Life and death, the power of the tongue, ship is controlled by rudder, your life is controlled by the tongue.
Like the Bible goes hard on like let no one wholesome talk come out of your mouth.
Um, and so like if we're going to actually try and do what the Bible tells us to do, then we need to be mindful of, of what we're saying.
And I think that that's, that's the only way you really work on it.
Like you have to be paying attention to what you're saying, know what you're supposed to be saying and what you're not supposed to be saying.
And then actively working on choosing the right things to say more than the wrong things to say.
And it is, it's a lifelong process, right?
Cause you can be great for like six months at this.
And then your wife or your husband does something completely stupid.
and you just revert right back into just speaking your mind.
And it's like, oh, I was doing so good.
And so like circumstances happen, you're going to, you're going to feel like you've conquered this thing.
And then somebody cuts you off in traffic and all of a sudden it's like, oh no, there's still a little bit of that in me.
And so it's just, you're constantly working on these things, constantly reflecting, constantly asking the Holy Spirit for help.
And yeah, it's, so like my wife's was the silent treatment thing.
Like when we first got married, cause you're right, like marriage reveals all kinds of stuff in you and in your spouse.
And you have to work on those things together.
And so like her thing was, instead of like talking through the problem, she would just shut down.
And I'm like, no, we need to come to resolution.
Like we have a disagreement.
You want this, I want this.
We're not in agreement on it.
If you just go lock yourself in the room and don't say anything,
we're still left with, I want this and you want that.
Like it doesn't help anything.
So like we have to talk these things out.
And that was just for the family that she grew up in, like that was a foreign concept.
And so, man, we had to work on that thing for years, but she's at a place now where sometimes she'll dip back into that.
But all I have to do is be like, so we got to talk about this.
She's like, I know.
And then we talk.
And so like there's, you can see there's progress.
I mean, 18 years of marriage.
There better be some progress.
Um, and then like I said earlier, like for, for me, it's the cutting remarks.
And like, I remember like it, man, it was like a dagger, uh, in my heart.
There was early on in our marriage, she stopped me in like the middle of something and she's like, you're making me feel like I'm stupid.
I'm like, what do you, what do you mean?
Like that's dumb.
And she's like, not saying it right now.
And this is like, yeah, this is how oblivious I was to it that even in saying, well, that's stupid.
Like I didn't see how I was calling her stupid or I was making her feel stupid.
It was like, well, logic A plus B equals C, like, like, what's going on here?
And so like, I, man, when she said that to me, though, and like it actually clicked was like, I
I never want my wife to feel like I'm looking down on her.
And she's a brilliant woman.
And so like, it was like, okay, that's not what I want.
But what I've been saying to her and the way I've been saying it to her has been giving us this result.
So if I don't want this result,
I've got to change what I'm saying and how I'm saying it.
And so for the sake of the relationship, I need to fix what's going on in me.
And so like that's been
Cause it, and it, it went back to childhood.
Like, I think we've talked about before.
I was a little guy, like I wasn't going to win a lot of fist fights, but I could beat the mess out of you with my words.
Every word battle.
Um, and so that's where I leaned heavily.
Um, and so then it just carried over into adulthood and I wasn't even trying to win fights, but it was just, that was just the natural way words would come out of my mouth.
Um, and so like there's now I'm 41 years old and I'm still dealing with stuff that I did at 12 years old.
Um, like that sucks, but that's just kind of the part of life.
Like you've got to actively work on it.
That's why you got to take up your cross daily.
Cause I can fix it today, but tomorrow's a new day.
And I'm still going to be fighting those battles.
Yeah.
Very true.
This is really helping some people.
It's helping me.
Like just man, it's so good.
Okay.
Last question.
I actually have four more, but I'm going to choose one more because we're running out of time.
And so I'm trying to see which one is the best.
That one right there.
The one you just looked at.
Okay, I'm gonna go with it.
Um, okay.
What if I forgive someone, but I still feel it triggered in conversation with them?
How do I handle that?
Uh, it takes time.
Uh, I think that forgiveness is, it's an active stance.
Um, like it's not like a magic like,
I had this moment of forgiveness and now I don't remember all the bad things that the person did.
Like, now you're still gonna know those things.
But forgiveness means I'm not gonna hold that against them.
And so, yeah, you're still gonna be dealing with some triggers if you wanna use that language or you're gonna still have some moments where it's, I forgave this person because they did this thing, but now all of a sudden they did something really similar or they did something that was like an indicator before that they were gonna do it again and now all of a sudden it's like, ugh.
Okay, that's normal and that's also okay.
There is something in forgiving somebody for something, but not being okay with them doing it again will create a hypothetical if your spouse cheated on you, but you decided for the relationship that you're gonna forgive them, you're gonna be reconciled, you're gonna work through this marriage together.
But then all of a sudden you start seeing the same behaviors that they did the last time they cheated.
They're getting defensive with their messages.
They're disappearing without explanation.
They come home late.
It's like, OK, I forgave you.
However, there's a pattern of behavior that's coming around again.
So it would be ignorant of me to be oblivious to that just for the sake of, but I forgave them.
And so yeah, there's absolutely going to be the reality of some of those things.
But in like a normal circumstance, a normal way of life, you forgive somebody and every time that thing kind of creeps back in, you've got to make the choice to continue to forgive.
That I'm going to continue in my forgiveness of them.
That it wasn't just a one-time moment, but I'm going to actively walk in this forgiveness.
And then just because I brought up a whole relational thing, it also doesn't necessarily mean that you have to give them the same level of access to your life.
You can forgive somebody and still say, but we can't be friends anymore.
I forgive you.
I love you.
But the way we used to, like the friendship we used to have, because of your actions, that friendship, it's destroyed.
That friendship can't happen.
Do I wish you any ill will or anything?
No.
I'm not going around talking bad about you.
I'm not going to do all that stuff.
Like, I love you as a brother in Christ, or whatever.
But we need to separate from this.
And I'm gonna go my way, you're gonna go your way.
Don't hate ya, but we just can't be friends at the way that we were before, because you broke trust.
I agree, that's totally okay.
You know, I was thinking about this verse of his mercy endures forever.
And as you were saying, it's constant.
And I think of that like mercy and forgiveness is something that needs to endure.
And so if you forgive someone one time, you still gotta continue to like choose forgiveness, you know, in every moment, even if they do it again.
Cause that's what God does with us.
Like, yes, the cross forgives sins once and for all.
But if we talk about even taking up our cross every day, it is really like, God is forgiving me every day.
because every day I'm probably doing something, you know, that is not perfect.
So that's what I think of of just that forgiveness has to endure.
So it's not a one time thing, as you said.
Yeah, that's good.
Well, this was a good message.
And man, I just encourage you to go rewatch that sermon because Mama Chris did an amazing job laying out what
Communication looks like flags to look for, but I also think this conversation was very edifying for people to take those application pieces and start applying it to real life situations because listen, we live in a fallen world and hurt people hurt people sometimes.
So, but let's land this plane.
So come on, give us your best takeaway.
My favorite moment.
Favorite movie?
Every movie goes like this, by the way, behind the camera.
Rolling with the whole thing.
Listen, this is the whole thing.
I thought that was landing the plane.
Yeah, landing the plane, right?
But why did you roll in with the homies?
Oh, yeah, that's the truth.
It just came to me, like, that movie, Clueless.
Clueless came.
Every time, but you were five.
I mean, five.
All right, sorry.
I'm on the wrong show.
You are.
I don't know what this is.
You've seen Clueless.
I have.
Yes.
So when they did this, it made me feel good.
Rolling with the whole thing.
I remember.
Okay, anyway, you wrote your takeaway.
No, no, I pulled out because I wanted to get the so she quoted James 1 26 but in the NLT and I don't have it like memorized in the NLT.
I don't know that have it memorized in the ESV.
My brain doesn't hold on very well at 41 year old brain that got hit in the head too many times.
But yeah, that might take away James 1 26 and the NLT just
It was like that was the thing that everybody needed to hear, to be able to say, I actually need to do something about this.
James 1.26 says, if you claim to be religious, but don't control your tongue, you are fooling yourself, and your religion is worthless.
Wow.
That's a mic drop.
You can't control your tongue.
You ain't doing Jesus no good.
Yeah.
So maybe we should work on controlling our tongue.
Okay.
Yeah, we're going to do that as disciples today on our tongue control.
Yeah.
And I'll just go off of that as my takeaway is like the controlling the tongue part.
I think that when I first started walking with God, I was like, okay, I could do that.
And I was like doing it by like just being mindful of my words.
There is a thing of that, but I think it goes deeper with
which is the part with Pastor Chris said of confronting yourself of the heart posture.
Cause out of the heart is the, what flows out of your mouth, you know?
And so I really, for me, the takeaway and encouragement would be to get your heart rate first and the words will flow.
Yeah.
I like it.
No, that's good.
Um, I think for me, the, the part that I related to, I won't say it's a,
takeaway, but I can see how a lot of people can be in this space where it might be a difficult season.
Um, she started the message by talking about, you know, losing her mother and just, you know, the different elements that added to her feeling short tempered or just, you know, and, and that's a real thing.
Um, we can all be in difficult spaces where it's a difficult season.
Um, but I think this message encourages us to, to die daily.
and to really lean on God as that supernatural support because it will be tough seasons.
But God is faithful and he cares even about your communication and how you communicate with others.
So you don't have the power sometimes within yourself to do it alone.
Actually, you don't ever have the power within yourself to do it alone.
So lean on the Holy Spirit all the time.
And so that is my takeaway.
And thank you, Prady, for being on the show.
Thank you for scheduling me.
Thank you for letting me schedule myself.
Thank you.
It worked out well.
And this is a great conversation.
And so, yeah, we hope that it blessed you.
And until next week, we will see you soon.